I was born in Boston, I was there for two months because of my parents' work circumstances.
I ended up in Valencia, I studied there at the institute, at the university.
And from the university, well, let's say in parallel, I had a little agreement with my parents,
that is, while I get good grades, I can do a little of what I want, right?
So, I did a lot of things during the university in parallel, right?
I studied industrial engineering, I did organization, business plan competitions, etc.
I even had a music program, dance music, Saturday nights on the radio, things like that, right?
I went to Germany in the summer, I don't know, I thought I was going to work in a factory and I ended up organizing Latin parties,
I mean, very random things, right?
And well, I started doing internships last year in an industrial company,
and then when I finished my degree, I started working at BCG as a strategic consultant,
two years in Madrid and one in London, and from there I went to MIT.
I did a program called Leaders for Global Operations, LGO,
which is a program that originated in the 80s as a reaction to Japanese competition,
by industrial partners who set it up together with MIT.
And then, well, they pay you part of the enrollment and you do two masters,
an MBA and a master in operations management.
And there, well, I thought I would work again in some corporate, etc.,
and well, I started to get a little bit of the worm of entrepreneurship and such,
and I started to go back to things that would have frustrated me, right?
And that's a bit how I was born, how I was born, because it was my first adventure,
when, well, reflecting on my personal experience of paying the enrollment at MIT,
I was a scholarship holder for a foundation, Caja Madrid, and they made the payment,
so, of course, the university had a hard time getting that payment, which was for me,
and then, in the end, I went up, I went down, trying to solve this,
and at the same time, you realize that the bank has put a good nail in the exchange rate,
in commissions and such, right?
I said, how unfair the world is, in a way, that those who know less
and who can afford to be charged a lot of commissions and such,
are the ones who end up paying the party, right?
The small companies, the consumers and such.
How much was the… to quantify it, to illustrate it well,
what was the commission you were going to pay?
Not in percentages, in percentages it doesn't matter.
Yes, it was 1,000 euros, right?
So, in the end, in a payment of 40,000 dollars…
It was 1,000 euros.
You end up paying 1,000 dollars, in this case, yes, approximately,
so it's 5%, so you say, wow, I didn't realize it and I just lost 1,000 dollars, right?
Because the kind of exchange rate the bank gives you is very different from what's on the market.
And as you know, it's a reference that, when one thinks about value proposition, cost saving,
it's very easy when everyone knows how much a coffee costs, right?
More or less.
If someone buys you, they pay you ten times more,
and if I'm used to paying 1.5 euros for a coffee and someone pays me 15 euros,
I'm saying, hey, man, you're stealing from me, right?
But with the kind of exchange rate and with many things that are traded,
they are changing continuously.
So I would say, hey, 1.45, is it a good kind of exchange rate, euro, dollar or not?
Well, I don't know, you'd have to look at it, right?
It's not something immediate.
So, that's an advantage for not creating a transfer in the market, right?
For consumers.
So I said, hey, why not create an alternative to bank transfer?
Why not do something that is not necessarily the bank making that currency conversion?
And that's how Peer Transfer was born.
And originally, even the name of Peer Transfer,
I saw it as a peer-to-peer network where you can make transfers.
Basically, I come from Spain to the United States, I'm sending money,
other people are sending money from the United States to Spain,
because we don't net and we cross those transactions,
and we directly prevent money from moving internationally,
and it moves domestically.
So that was a bit of what I started with.
And I said, wow, how innovative, how disruptive, how about this, right?
A peer-to-peer network in this.
So, originally it was a platform, yes to yes, right?
Consumer to consumer.
Yes, well, it could be corporate too.
It could be more of a peer-to-peer where there are different participants
who in the end make transactions.
And so, that's how I set up the first experience.
And I got to a point where I said, wow, this makes sense.
In the end, you have the debate of,
we are in a world where we are always a bit there with our ears raised
to see if someone is estimating us.
So when you see an ad that says, I don't know what is cheaper, the best, right?
You say, well, let's see, is this true or not?
So sometimes when you set up a business, explaining why it is cheaper or why it is better,
at least, allows an understanding to the other party, right?
To say, okay, well, I don't know, you don't have a building,
so you save money on having a building and therefore you give me something cheaper.
Okay, I understand, right?
But there is a bit of the complexity between, if I explain to you how I am adding complexity
in the management of the business, and if I don't explain it to you,
it may be that you generate mistrust, right?
So there is a bit of a dilemma, because I got to a point where I realized that this was very good,
but as soon as you start to have scale and you start to get very good types of changes,
in the end it is not relevant.
It improves margins, but it is not fundamental to build a business.
So I made the decision of simplification.
To say, hey, look, we can give you a much cheaper type of change because we don't have offices,
and yes, you will get a lot, right?
It is an online business, with more modern technologies, etc.
And then I started to help small businesses and consumers.
This was a bit of everything that happened in the last year of the MBA,
and I started to help small businesses and such.
And then, talking to the universities, I almost said, hey, look, please,
you could tell some of these students who use us and such.
And I was very struck by one thing, and this is the issue of this.
Sometimes the flexibility of adapting your business model, depending on what you learn,
at the same time as the tenacity, right?
So sometimes it is not obsessing with what, no, this is going to be like this, yes or yes, right?
It has to be flexible and say, and depending on what is happening to you, adapt, right?
That discourse, product, proposal, etc., right?
Especially in that initial phase of validation.
And it is that the universities told me, if this transfer thing,
I don't understand what the hell.
Because half of our students are from Asia, for example, from China.
And many of them are called Li or Wang or very similar names, right?
So of course, we see transfers and we say, and this one, who does it belong to?
And sometimes, many times, it is not even the student, it is the father or the grandfather who makes the payment.
Or an uncle.
And of course, this thing that is so silly, right?
Like when you look at the extract of the card and say, what is this payment for?
And you say, no, if you don't multiply this by 5,000 students, the chaos is absolute, right?
And then, I say, no, if we can't solve this, it will be interesting.
So what I was almost saying, hey, please, could you tell your students to use us to send money?
It turned into, damn, if we turn the business around,
and almost what we do is make your life easier,
and thanks to you we are going to reach all the students who have to make payments.
So here we get two things.
One is confidence.
I mean, I don't have to convince a student.
If it is not UNESCA, who is almost saying to the student to pay through the platform,
and then you reduce the cost of acquisition in a great way, right?
Because suddenly you acquire 5,000 instead of 1,000, right?
So in the end, I think that...
So you switch from an open platform, as you said, to a payment medium that connects institutions.
For example, the one that receives the payment, which is the university.
It is a B2B2C, where we sell to UNESCA.
And that channel, channel bar customer, brings us to the customer, really, our end, right?
In a way where both were bad.
So it is a bit at the level...
But you rely on them, you rely on these institutions to capture many more customers.
Sure.
So if you extrapolate it a bit, conceptually, it is,
hey, maybe I am thinking of the end user client,
but there are still ways to get there that are not direct, they are indirect.
And it does make sense if it reduces my cost of acquisition,
it generates trust, etc.
But that doesn't work...
It is like if PayPal, for example, grows in a new e-commerce portal that has millions of users,
then at that moment it is capturing, it is gaining daily visibility in millions of users.
Yes.
And then, in the end, this makes sense when your channel also gains something, right? Ideally.
Because if it doesn't gain anything, in the end it will say,
okay, how much do you pay me for this?
And then it becomes a little more expensive for you.
That is the form of acquisition, if you think about acquisition of clients.
But do you consider that, for example, in that case, the university is your channel or is it a client?
It is both.
Because we create a solution for them,
a solution because it simplifies their life.
So basically the model is that we give them all the information they need to process that payment.
So the platform I created consisted of a use case.
You are going to study in Spain, a university abroad.
You arrive at that university and it says, hey, the enrollment is $30,000.
Then they would tell you, don't make us a $30,000 transfer.
Go to this thing, which, imagine, is the University of Borja.
Power MBA.
Power MBA or at that moment it was peertransfer.com, powermba.
And then I would tell you, where do you come from?
No, I come from Spain.
And they would say, don't send us $40,000, send us $30,000.
So those euros you would send us to a domestic account.
In a method of payment that you feel comfortable with.
Well, a domestic transfer, which in many banks is free.
Or a debit to your account.
And then we, taking those euros of yours,
we added them with many other students who came.
And then we made a conversion from euros to dollars at the majority level.
And with that we got a very, very good exchange rate.
And part of the savings we distributed with the student and part we gave ourselves.
And then those dollars, along with many other dollars from Korea, China and so on,
you send a payment of $10 million to the university
with the details of all the payments you needed.
What is the savings for the user?
The user would be around 2 to 5% of the transaction volume.
That is, how much?
Today, the company...
Would that be saved compared to doing it in the traditional way?
Yes, in a bank.
Today, the company is saving around 50 million euros a year to students from all over the world.
In commissions, in exchange rates, and so on.
In total, you are saving that?
Yes. Let's say, I led this company until 2013, when my first son was born.
I've been in the board for a year.
And then, to this day, I'm still an shareholder.
I'm not involved in administration management.
And now I'm returning to the origins of...
Hey, educational payments are a common use case.
And I'm saying again, well, on this platform that we have created, what else can we do?
So when I came back...